Term	Definition
32-bit versus 64-bit	32-bit versus 64-bit refers to the maximum size of an instruction that the CPU can process.
8.3 Filenames	The 8.3 filenames file-naming standard began with Microsoft DOS in 1981 and consisted of an eight-character ASCII name followed by a three-character file extension. Modern operating systems support long filenames, but Windows can also generate a short filename based on DOS 8.3 naming rules for compatibility with much older applications.
Access Control List (ACL)	The ACL specifies the user accounts and host IP addresses that can access a site and specifies the privileges allowed for the account or program accessing the site.
Access Point (AP)	An AP, such as a router, provides connectivity between wireless devices and a cabled network. Access points that provide Internet connectivity located in grocery stores, shops, restaurants, libraries, airports, and medical facilities are often referred to as hotspots.
Active Partition	The primary partition is the active, bootable partition.
Adapter Card	Adapter card circuit boards provide additional video, sound, and communication.
Advanced Micro Device (AMD)	An AMD is a CPU manufacturer that sells K6, Athlon 64, and Opteron branded chips.
Advanced RISC Machine (ARM)	An ARM is a designer of CPU and chip set architectures for mobile devices based on the Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC). RISC microarchitectures process simple instructions fast.
Airplane Mode	Airplane mode is accessed using the toggle or slider user interface button on mobile devices. It quickly disables and enables wireless connectivity and cellular access.
Android	Android is an open source operating system built for mobile devices developed by the Open Handset Alliance and primarily sponsored by Google.
Antivirus Software	The goal of antivirus software is to detect and remove virus infections and most malware. Antivirus software identifies malware code (signatures) and detects suspicious behavior (heuristics). Antivirus software requires frequent updating.
Apple	Apple is a company that manufactures desktops, laptops, all-in ones, tablets, phones and other related peripheral devices and software. Apple computers use macOS, built on UNIX, and use Apple-native apps or third-party developer apps built to run on the macOS platform.
Audio Card	Audio cards are adapter cards that enable computers to record and play sound.
Audio Port	Audio ports, usually located at the edge of the motherboard, provide a connection to the cable to support audio in, speaker out, microphone input, and headphones.
Authentication	Authentication is a method for users to prove who they are. Methods include specifying a username and password, smart cards, biometrics, and additional techniques such as two-factor authentication.
Availability	Availability is the balance of implementing security measures that protect resources from loss, damage, or DoS attacks, and providing users with methods to recover access to their devices.
Backup	A backup is a copy of data stored for use in case of a system failure. Backups help prevent loss of work.
Battery	A battery is a power source for computing devices, typically rechargeable Lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries of differing capacities. Computers use coin cell batteries to power their CMOS RAM.
Binary	Binary is a notational system with two values per digit, zero and one.
Biometric	Biometric identification is the use of physically identifying features as security authentication to access a device, software application, or website.
Bit	A bit, the smallest measurable computer value is a single digit with two values, zero and one.
Bits per Second (bps)	Bits per second is a data rate measurement used to describe data transfer speeds.
Bluetooth	Bluetooth is a short-range, radio-based technology that works at up to 10m (30 feet) at up to 1 Mbps connecting computing devices with peripherals.
Blu-ray	Blu-ray is optical drive technology with disc capacity of 25 GB per layer. Transfer rates are measured in multiples of 36 MBps.
Boolean	Boolean is a data type that supports 1-bit storage, representing the values of true and false. Boolean logic is a statement that uses true and false conditions. Boolean logic supports the branching and looping features in computer code.
Boot Partition	The boot partition, or system partition, for both Apple and Windows devices is the partitioned part of the hard drive that contains the Microsoft Windows operating system.
Browser	A web browser is software designed to view HTML pages that runs plug-in applications to enable the use of file formats including PDFs, sound, and video.
Bus	A bus is the physical connection between motherboard components and peripheral devices attached to the computer. A bus’s capabilities include data sharing, memory addressing, and suppling power to the port. Common bus types include PCI, PCI Express, ExpressCard, and USB.
Byte	A byte is the value of eight bits.
Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) Monitor	A CRT monitor receives an analog signal from the graphics adapter and illuminates red, green, and blue dots, forming a picture. Most current systems use LCD panels.
Celeron Processor Series	The Celeron processor series is a set of CPU models produced by Intel alongside their Pentium and Core brands.
Cell Phone	Cell phones are mobile devices that send and receive data and voice communications using base station transmitters, known as cells, which connect to cellular and telephone networks. Data communications are divided into bands with differing data transmission capabilities: 4G (LTE, up to about 150 Mbps), and 5G (up to 1 Gbps). Most cellular networks in the United States now offer 4G and 5G communications.
Central Processing Unit (CPU)	The CPU is the principal microprocessor in a computer or smartphone responsible for running operating system and applications software.
Char	Char, short for character, is a data type that represents one unit of data storage. ASCII and Unicode are char data types.
Chip Set	A chip set communicates with components using controllers. Chip sets can also include “integrated” adapters for video, sound, and network connections. Chip sets placed close to the CPU are referred to as northbridge chip sets. Chip sets further away on the board, or located at the perimeter of the board, are referred to as southbridge.
Chrome OS	Based on Linux, Chrome OS is a proprietary operating system developed by Google to run on specific laptops (Chromebooks) and personal computers (Chromebox).
Client	A client device is any computer hardware or software device that requests access to a service, such as to a printer or to stored data, which is available via the network.
Compatibility Mode	Compatibility mode is the capability of an application to work with data, files, and settings from previous versions of an application or operating system.
Computer Management Console	The Computer Management Console provides access to Windows Device Manager, Event Viewer, Disk Management, Services, and Performance Monitor. One way to access the console is to type Computer Management in the Taskbar search field and open the Computer Management app.
Control Panel	The control panel is the primary Windows management interface for managing operating system settings.
Converged Network	Converged networks carry both voice and data. These networks require additional security considerations to mitigate the vulnerability to denial of services (DoS) and eavesdropping.
Cooling Device	Cooling devices dissipate the heat that CPUs generate. This heat can damage the processor or chip. Generally, CPUs include a heatsink, which consists of a metal block with fins and includes a fan. Thermal compound, applied at the contact point between the chip and the heatsink, helps with heat transfer. Most computers also include one or more fans that route heated air out of the case. Modern motherboards have temperature sensors that provide warning of overheating before damage can occur. Large computing systems and performance PCs may require liquid cooling. Active cooling systems use electricity. Passive cooling systems do not require electricity.
Core Processor Series	Core Processor Series is an Intel processor brand. Core, Core 2, and Core iX CPUs are based on the Pentium M architecture.
Data Rate	Data rate is the speed at which data is sent and received among two or more computer components.
Data Unit	A data unit is a fundamental unit of data storage. A bit is a computer’s most fundamental data unit and computer storage.
Default Account	Default accounts include default administrative and guest accounts configured on servers and networks of unauthorized access. A good practice is to rename the Windows administrative account. Another good practice is to leave the “root” system owner account unused on UNIX/Linux systems.
Default Gateway	The default gateway is a TCP/IP address parameter that identifies the location of a router on the local subnet. The host device uses that TC/IP address as part of the routing information needed to contact other networks.
Desktop	The desktop is the main window displayed when a user opens a computer. The term “desktop” is usually associated with Microsoft Windows computers.
Device Driver	Device driver code, usually provided by the hardware manufacturer, loads on startup and works with the OS to establish communication with the additional hardware. Windows uses a signing system for drivers to validate that the code is approved.
Device Manager	The Windows Device Manager enables the administrator to add devices, view device properties, disable and remove devices, update device drivers, view system resources, and update device drivers.
Digital Camera (Digicam)	Digital cameras use light-sensitive diodes and nonvolatile electronic storage media. The sensitivity of the array determines the maximum resolution of the image, usually documented in pixels. Digital cameras can connect to a computer using a USB or Firewire port. However, with digital cameras as part of smartphones, users often store images on the cloud and download images to other sites for publication and storage.
Digital Signaling	Digital signaling uses discrete states to represent simple values, such as 1 or 0.
Digital Video Interface (DVI)	DVI is a video adapter designed to replace VGA ports on CRT monitors. DVI interfaces can support digital-only or digital and analog signaling.
Directory	A directory is a file system object that organizes files within a specific space. Directories, also known as folders, are created within the hard drive. The main space that holds directories and subdirectories is referred to as the root folder.
Disaster Recovery Plan	In conjunction with business continuity is the disaster recovery plan, which sets out actions and responsibilities for foreseen and unforeseen critical incidents. Disaster recovery plans include the actions and responsibilities in response to critical incidents. Recovery plans can also include practice exercises to assess disaster recovery procedures.
Disk Operating System (DOS)	Widely adopted in the 1980s, Microsoft developed MS-DOS as a single-task operating system. The last MS-DOS release was version 6.22, released in June 1994.
DisplayPort	DisplayPort, developed by Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA), is a digital A/V interface that supports some cross-compatibility with DVI and HDMI devices.
Domain Name System (DNS)	The DNS is a hierarchical, distributed database that provides a worldwide name to IP address mapping services for the Internet and large intranets.
Dual Core	Dual core is a CPU design that puts two chips onto the same platform.
Dynamic RAM (DRAM)	DRAM is a type of volatile memory that stores data in the form of electronic charges within transistors. Standard DRAM is the most basic type of DRAM. Modern PCs usually use upgraded DRAM to help process data.
Embedded System	Embedded systems contain proprietary operating systems and perform specific, dedicated functions. Appliances, spacecraft, and IoT devices use embedded systems.
Encryption	Encryption is the masking and/or scrambling of characters to securely store data including passwords and messages.
Ethernet (802.3)	Ethernet (802.3) is a popular local area networking technology method. Ethernet is compatible with coax, thinnet, UTP, and fiber optic cables. Wireless devices can also connect to Ethernet networks via a Wireless Access Point.
Facsimile (Fax)	A facsimile is the transfer of the image of a document over a telephone line using a fax modem that is usually part of a single fax machine, a multifunction printer, or within PC equipment.
Fault Tolerance (Redundancy)	Fault-tolerant systems provide extra capacity, or redundancy, which helps organizations identify and eliminate causes of failure.
File	A file is a collection of data. Files store data either as plain text data or binary data. Files have a descriptive name followed by a period and a three-character extension, which is used to associate the file with a particular software application.
File Allocation Table (FAT)	The FAT is a method of formatting a hard disk. The FAT contains information that describes the position of file data chunks on the disk. Data for a single file can exist on multiple tracks.
File Server	A file server is a network-based machine that provides centralized access to data and print services.
File System	When data is stored on a disk, the data is stored in a file system based on the directory and files sizes available based on how the disk was partitioned. File systems include FAT16, FAT32, and NTFS (used for internal storage) and optical storage formats including CDFS (ISO 9660) and UDF (Universal Disk Format).
Firewall	A firewall consists of hardware, software, or a combination both that examines the network packet data passing through the network and determines if the data should be allowed past the firewall to the destination computing devices.
Firewire (IEEE 1394 Standard)	The IEEE standard 1394 port, known as Firewire, is a serial SCSI bus standard that supports up to 400 Mbps data transfer rates. Firewire enables intensive data transfer such as digital media transfers.
Firmware	Firmware comprises software instructions that are stored semi-permanently (embedded) on a hardware device.
Float	Float is the data type supporting the storage of floating-point numbers (decimal fractions).
Frame	Just like packets, frames are small parts of a message within the network that help decode and interpret the data, including source and target MAC (hardware) addresses as well as the data and error-checking regions. The main difference between a packet and a frame is the association with the network’s OSI data link layer. Frames contain more information about the transmitted message than a packet.
Frontside Bus	The frontside bus is between the CPU and the memory controller (system RAM).
Function (Fn) Key	Function keys are special keys or key combinations that access the BIOS and adjust computing settings such as volume up and down, microphone off and on, screen brightness, and others.
Fuser	A fuser is the assembly that fixes toner to media, using a combination of a heat and pressure roller.
Gesture-based Interaction	Gesture-based interaction enables the use of swipe, pinch, and stretch actions to perform tasks using a touchscreen.
Graphical User Interface (GUI)	A graphical user interface, or GUI (pronounced “gooey”), displays both text and images on a monitor. Most GUIs require an input pointing device, such as a mouse or keyboard, to operate efficiently and an output device, such as a monitor. Although these operating systems have command line interfaces, Windows, macOS, Chrome OS, iOS, and Android operating systems, by default, are GUI operating systems.
Group Account	A group account is a collection of user accounts.
Hard Disk Drive (HDD)	Hard disk drives provide nonvolatile, long-term data storage. An HDD installed within a PC is known as a hard disk. Portable, external, enclosed hard disk data storage is also known as Network Attached Storage (NAS).
Hexadecimal	Hexadecimal, known as hex, is a notational system with 16 values per digit. Values above 9 are represented by the letters A, B, C, D, E, and F. Hex is a compact way of referring to long byte values, MAC and IPv6 addresses, and color notations for web pages.
Homegroup	Used with Windows 7, Homegroup is a networking feature that enables Windows 7 home networks to share files and printers easily via passwords.
Host	In TCP/IP networking terminology, a host is any device that connects to a network.
Hot Swappable	A hot-swappable device can be added or removed without having to restart the operating system.
Hybrid Fiber Coax	Hybrid fiber coax cables, which include both a fiber optic line and coax cable, are usually installed by a cable provider to carry both television and Internet access within the same cable.
Inkjet Printer	An inkjet printer, also known as an ink dispersion printer, is a type of printer that uses nozzles to spray colors of ink onto paper.
Input/Output (I/O) Port	An I/O port is a device connection through which data can be sent and received.
Integer	An integer is a whole number and is usually a supported data type.
Intel	Intel processors were used in the first IBM PCs and the company’s CPUs and chip sets continue to dominate the PC and laptop market.
Internet	The Internet core consists of high-speed data communications lines using TCP/IP protocols by major host computers, hosted by thousands of commercial, government, educational, and other computer systems that route data and messages. No single company or organization owns the Internet.
Internet of Things (IoT)	IoT devices are special-purpose computers, usually with a specialized operating system, designed to perform limited, specific functions.
Internet Protocol (IP)	IP is the network-layer protocol in TCP/IP that enables packet addressing and routing for all higher-level protocols in the suite.
Internet Protocol (IP) Address	Each receiving computer must have a manually or dynamically allocated IP address.
Intranet	An intranet is a company’s network.
iOS	iOS is the mobile operating system developed by Apple for its iPhone and iPad devices.
Kernel	A kernel is a low-level piece of core code in an operating system that controls the rest of the operating system. Windows uses a multiprocessor-aware, preemptive, multitasking kernel.
Keyboard	A keyboard is the oldest PC input device that is still fundamental to operating a computer. Desktop keyboards can have PS/2, USB, or wireless (IrDA or Bluetooth) interfaces. There are many designs and layouts for different countries. Some keyboards feature special keys.
Knowledge Base	A knowledge base is a searchable database of advice, frequently asked questions, and solutions to known troubleshooting issues.
Laptop/Notebook	A laptop/notebook is a powerful portable computer offering similar functionality to a desktop computer. Laptops include built-in output and input devices (monitor, keyboard, and touchpad), powered by both AC and DC power. These devices typically include USB, PCMCIA, ExpressCard adapters, and Bluetooth adapters for connecting peripherals.
Laser Printer	A laser printer develops an image on a drum using electrical charges to attract special toner in one or more colors. The toner is then fixed to the paper using a high-heat and pressure roller (fuser).
Least Privilege	Least privilege is a basic principle of security stating that a user is given the minimum necessary rights, privileges, or information to perform their role.
Legacy Device	Legacy devices are hardware, such as printers and scanners, which are not Plug-and-Play compatible and require additional configuration.
Library	Virtual folders, called libraries, introduced in Windows 7, are predefined locations for documents, pictures, and music.
Licensing	Licensing is the contracted terms and conditions users accept to install and use an operating system software or other software on a single computer or multiple computers.
Lightning Connector	A lightning connector is a proprietary connector and interface for Apple devices.
Linux	Linux is an open source operating system developed by Linus Torvalds for both enterprise and personal use.
Liquid Cooling System	A liquid cooling system uses water piped around the PC board components and heatsinks to cool those components. Liquid cooling systems allow for fewer fans and less noise.
Local Area Network (LAN)	A LAN is a type of network located in one geographic location and owned/managed by a single organization.
Long File Name	A long file name is a 255-character Unicode file name that can contain spaces and multiple periods.
Long Term Evolution (LTE)	LTE is the cellular bandwidth space that provides upgrade to 3G technologies such as W-CDMA and HSPA. LTE Advanced provides 4G standard network access. LTE is rapidly becoming outdated as many carriers are moving to 5G.
Mapping	Mapping is the process of establishing a connection with a file resource on a remote server, for example, mapping a network drive, identified by a letter or name.
Microsegmentation	In a switched network, microsegmentation is the data routing technique that keeps each port in a separate collision domain and, therefore, prevents data collisions.
Microsoft	Microsoft is the world’s foremost supplier of operating system and productivity software. Microsoft has dominated the PC market since the development of the first IBM-compatible PCs running MS-DOS.
Mobile Device	Mobile devices are characterized as general-purpose computing devices, such as mobile phones, phablets, and tablets, that humans can carry to multiple locations. These devices often store valuable personal or corporate information.
Mobile Phone	A mobile phone is the UK English term for a cell phone.
Modem (Modulator/Demodulator)	Modems convert the digital signals from a computer into the appropriate analog signal required to transmit data over public phone lines, a process known as modulation. Demodulation occurs at the receiving computer.
Motherboard	The computer motherboard, also called the system board, provides the foundation for all the computer’s hardware including the processor, RAM, BIOS, and expansion cards. Several motherboard standards are available each with a different layout and associated advantages.
Mouse	A mouse is an input device that interfaces with graphical displays. With a mouse, a user can control the movement of a cursor to select on-screen objects.
Multimedia	Multimedia refers to PC components that can input and output sound and video.
Multiprocessing	Multiprocessing happens where two or more processors are used on a single motherboard. Both processors can share operations thereby increasing performance. Business and professional editions of Windows support a type of multiprocessing called Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP) with a maximum of 2 CPUs.
Near Field Communication (NFC)	NFC, based on RFID technology, is a standard communication type for peer-to-peer radio communications over approximately 1.5 inches. NFC enables, exchange of contact information, contactless payments, and others.
Network	Networks are two or more computers that can connect to share data.
Network Address	Like having a home address, computing devices require a network address for other computing devices to find them. The IPv4 address method uses a 32-bit binary number, typically expressed as a 4-part decimal number separated by dots, while IPv6 uses a 128-bit binary number displayed using hexadecimal formatting. Networks, network devices, and peripherals on the network also have their own addresses.
Network Attached Storage (NAS)	NAS is storage hardware with an embedded OS that enables fast “near computer” access. Users should take extra care to protect NAS storage from security concerns.
Notification Area	The notification area is part of the taskbar (usually located on the right-hand side) that displays background applications and status information (such as the date and time, antivirus software, network connections, and alerts). Some users may refer to this space as the system tray.
Open Source	Open source refers to programming code that is freely available. Linux is an example of open source operating system code. Learn more at opensource.org.
OS X	Based on the BSD version of UNIX, OS X is Apple’s operating system for iMac computers, Mac workstations, and MacBook portables.
Partition	A partition is a discrete area of hard disk storage created using either the Master Boot Record (MBR) scheme or the GUID Partition Table (GPT). You can have multiple partitions on the same disk. Partitions can be created as boot partitions and can have different formatting methods.
Password	A password is the stored, encrypted arrangement of letters, numbers, special characters, and spaces that enables a user to access hardware, devices, software, online sites, and accounts.
Password Policy	A password policy contains the requirements related the required amount and arrangement of letters, numbers, special characters, and spaces for device and account passwords.
Patch Management	Patch management includes identification, testing, and deployment of software and firmware. Patches are often classified as critical, security-critical, recommended, and optional.
PCI Express (PCIe)	(PCIe is the latest expansion bus standard featuring serial, point-to-point connections. PCIe software is backward compatible, enabling manufacturers to place both expansion bus types on the same motherboard.
Peer-to-Peer (P2P)	P2P file-sharing networks are often associated with hosting malware and illegal material to clients that use the network.
Pentium Processor Series	The Pentium processor series is a brand of Intel processors.
Permission	Permissions are the rights to access files and folders on a volume, which may span multiple disk partitions.
Plug-and-Play (PnP)	A Plug-and-Play system (comprising a compatible BIOS, operating system, and hardware) is self-configuring. When a hardware device is added or removed, the operating system detects the change and automatically installs the appropriate drivers.
Port	Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) applications use a uniquely numbered port assigned to a particular application protocol (such as HTTP or SMTP). The port number, along with the IP address creates a two-way communications channel or socket between the client (end-user computer) and network computers, such as servers.
Power-On Self-Test (POST)	The POST procedure is a hardware-checking routine built into the PC firmware that monitors the processor, RAM, system clock, internal display, and the BIOS itself.
Presentation Software	Presentation software is a form of application software that enables users to create files that display graphics, text, and can include video and audio. The user can display the resulting file as an on-screen slide show, print the pages from the file for shared usage, create a movie, or print the pages from the file onto transparent plastic pages for use with an overhead projector.
Printer	A printer is a physical output device that produces a paper copy of a document or data file, or a deliverable, such as 3-D output. Printers consist of a spool directory, a printer driver, and configuration information.
Product Key	A product key is the license key a software company provides so that a user can activate and use their software.
Program Files Folder	The Windows Program Files folder is the default location for application executables and supporting files.
Projector	Projectors are output devices that use CRT, LCD, or DLP technologies to display images in a large format, usually for multiuser views.
Protocol	A protocol is a set of rules computers use to exchange data. A single network can use many different protocols. Protocol header fields describe each packet, include a maximum length for the payload (the data in the packet), and describe methods of processing information from the headers.
PS/2 Connector	A PS/2 connector is a port for attaching a keyboard and mouse to a desktop computer, now largely replaced by USB.
Radio Frequency (RF)	Radio frequency waves at different frequencies and wavelengths can transmit data. Wi-Fi network products typically work at 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz.
Random Access Memory (RAM)	RAM is the principal storage space for computer data and program instructions. RAM is described as volatile because RAM memory is temporary, meaning that the data is only retained while the computer is in use.
RCA Connector	An RCA connector has a distinctive collar or ring used for a variety of audio/visual (A/V) functions and equipment. The connector is named after its developer (Radio Corporation of America), but the socket is also referred to as a phono plug.
Recordable CD Drive	Recordable CD drives are optical drives that enable users to write data to compact discs, or CDs.
Recycle Bin	The recycle bin is the location where files reside after they are removed from their directory locations and before they are deleted completely from the hard disk.
Registered Jack (RJ) Connector	An RJ connector is used for twisted pair cabling. Four-pair network cabling uses the larger RJ-45 connector. Modem/telephone 2-pair cabling uses the RJ-11 connector.
Registry	The registry database is the configuration database for Windows hardware and software. Sometimes hardware and software configurations can become out of sync or corrupted. An experienced support person can directly edit the registry using a variety of tools. Always back up the registry before editing the file.
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)	The Remote Desktop Protocol is Microsoft’s protocol allowing remote connections to a Windows machine for Terminal Services. Terminal Services enables authorized users to log onto the computer via a local network, wide area network, or the Internet.
Removable Media	Removable media refers to data or media storage that a user can disconnect from their computing device. Removable media includes eSATA drives, external SSD drives, memory cards, tapes, CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray disks.
Resolution	A digital image is made up of many thousands of picture elements (pixels). Resolution describes the number of dots that an imaging device can use to sample or display the image, measured in pixels per inch (PPI). The higher the resolution, the better the quality. On a digital printer, the resolution is the number of toner or ink dots that the print engine can put on paper (measured in dots per inch [dpi]). Note that sometimes dpi is used interchangeably with PPI to describe scanner or monitor resolution, but image pixels and printer dots are not equivalent, as multiple printer dots are required to represent a single image pixel accurately.
Router	Routers connect similar and dissimilar networks at network layer 3 within the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model. Routers can access multiple source and destination addresses within packets, based on speed, traffic loads, and costs and can keep track of multiple active paths within a given source and destination network. Network administrators can use TCP/IP routers on a local area network to divide the network into logical subnets.
Satellite	Satellite transmission of data happens using microwave transmissions where orbital satellites relay signals between earth-bound receivers and other orbital satellites. Satellite Internet connectivity uses a receiving antenna connected to the PC or network through a DVB-S modem.
Scanner	A scanner is a type of photocopier that converts the image of a physical object into an electronic data file. This file may or may not be editable based on the software included with the scanner.
Scanner	A flatbed scanner scans text or images by the user placing the paper on a glass faceplate. The scan head moves under the glass faceplate and reads the data to an electronic file. Portable scanners enable the user to feed the document through the scanner and scan the text or images one line at a time to build the document or image.
Secure Digital (SD) Card	SD cards are removable storage media and one of the first types of available flash memory cards.
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)	SSL, developed by Netscape, is an authentication method for accessing websites and writing data to databases accessed via those websites.
Serial ATA (SATA) Drive	SATA hard drives feature a 7-pin data connector and data throughput of 1.5 Gbps, 3 Gbps, and 6 Gbps. External SATA drives attach to a computer using the eSATA interface.
Server	A server is a computer located on a network with memory and storage, which provides access to shared resources.
Service	Windows machines run services to provide functions such as Plug-and-Play, print spooling, and others. Open the Services app to view, configure, start, and stop these functions.
Service Pack (SP)	A service pack includes software updates and customer-specific hotfixes released as one installable file. Service packs often add new features to the OS.
Service Set ID (SSID)	The SSID is the name for a specific Wireless LAN (WLAN) such as you might find in a café. When multiple access points use the same SSID, this is referred to as an Extended (ESSID).
Share	The installation and enablement of Windows File and Print Sharing enables the sharing of folders, files, and printers across networks.
Shortcut	A shortcut is an icon that contains a URL to open a program or file. Shortcuts are usually located on the desktop or in the Start menu.
Smartphone	A smartphone is a mobile device that uses a lightweight operating system and supports cellular phone call, SMS text messaging, Wi-Fi access. Smartphones include general-purpose computing functionality, including cameras, Internet messaging apps, productivity apps and mores. Smartphones typically have screen sizes of between 4 and 5.5 inches.
Start Menu	The Start menu is a list of programs and shortcuts that locates and loads applications or folders.
String	A string data type supports the storage of variable-length series of characters.
Stylus	A digitizer, which enables touchscreen type capabilities, can use a stylus as a pointing device (rather than using a finger), often as a drawing tool.
Switch	Networks use multiple types of switches. Ethernet (or LAN) switches perform bridge functions to route the data. Advanced switches perform routing at multiple layers: Layer 3 (IP), 4 (TCP), or 7 (Application). Switches routing at layer 4 or 7 are referred to as load balancers and content switches.
Synchronous DRAM (SDRAM)	Synchronous DRAM, an improvement on the basic DRAM chip, is designed to run at the system clock speed thus accelerating the periodic refresh cycle times.
System Requirement	System requirements include the hardware needed to install additional add-on hardware components, operating systems, application software, and utility software.
Tablet	A tablet is a type of ultra-portable laptop with a touchscreen. Tablets run specialized operating systems including android, iOS, windows, and ChromeOS.
Task Manager	The Windows Task Manager app enables the control of running tasks, processes, and CPU/memory utilization.
Task Scheduler	The Task Scheduler enables users to set tasks such as program starts and stops to happen at a preset time or in response to another event.
Taskbar	The Taskbar is a means of locating running programs and contains the Start menu and system tray/notification area (as well as an optional Quick Launch toolbar). It appears by default at the bottom of the desktop.
Test Page	A test page is a printed page generated after installing or updating a printer that verifies the printer is working correctly.
Thumb Drive	A thumb drive is a flash memory card contained within a case. Thumb drives connect to computing devices using a USB adapter.
Thunderbolt	The Thunderbolt (TB) interface was developed by Intel and until recently was primarily used on Apple workstations and laptops. Thunderbolt adapters can power display interfaces (like DisplayPort) and function as a USB3 port.
Toner	Toner is the chemical that uses dye, wax, or plastic, and uses an electromagnetic charge to functions as ink to print to paper or other materials.
Touchpad	A touchpad is an input device used on most laptops to replace the mouse. The touchpad allows the user to control the cursor by moving a finger over the pad’s surface. Touchpads can have buttons and recognize “tap” events and perform scrolling functions.
Touchscreen	Touchscreens display output and accept programming that enables touch user input.
Transfer Rate	The transfer rate is the amount of data sent or received via a network connection in a specific amount of time, typically measured in bits or bytes per second.
Troubleshooting	Troubleshooting is the methodical approach to diagnosing and resolving issues that affect computer performance.
TWAIN	TWAIN is not an acronym but a name for the standard driver or API used for communications between printers and scanners and  their application software.
Unicode	Unicode is made of code points and includes code point and hexadecimal characters that represent character glyphs. Unicode supports international alphabets.
Universal Disk Format (UDF)	UDF is the file system used for optical media, replacing the Compact Disk File System (CDFS).
Universal Serial Bus (USB)	According to the website How Stuff works, a USB supports up to 127 different peripherals.
UNIX System	The UNIX operating system was developed by AT&T and first used in 1969. Considered a general-purpose operating system, UNIX was novel at the time for its support for parallel processing and multiple vendor hardware platforms. UNIX servers are used for the Internet backbone and use TCP/IP communication protocols to provide compatibility between networks.
Update	Software and hardware manufacturers push firmware and software updates to fix malfunction, address security vulnerabilities, and enhance features. Updates include hotfixes, (customer specific fixes) patches (available fixes), and service packs (combined patches and enhancements).
User Account	A user account is an individual account within Windows User Account Control.
User Account Control (UAC)	This Windows security system enables user privilege based on need so that users don’t inadvertently or intentionally make changes that would harm the computer, the organization, or both.
User Datagram Protocol (UDP)	UDP works in the network transport layer to provide fast communications. This protocol is faster than TCP but does not ensure reliability.
Video Card	Video cards, also known as graphics adapters, provide the interface between the graphics components of the computer and display devices. Video cards can work with VGA-, DVI-, and HDM-connected internal and external displays. Most video cards include a processor (Graphics Processing Unit [GPU]) and onboard memory.
Video Conferencing	Video conferencing or video teleconferencing (VTC) software allows users to use their input and output devices to conduct voice and video meetings. Some software packages include options for multiple individual meeting rooms and instant messaging.
Video Standard	Video standards define the resolution and color depth for a graphics adapter and computer display. You can find the available video standards within the operating systems settings.
Virtual Memory	Virtual memory (also known as swapping or paging) is an area on the hard disk allocated for volatile memory when the installed RAM is insufficient, or the hardware is malfunctioning.
Web Application	A web application is software run from a web server. Clients can access the application using a web browser.
Web Server	Web servers host websites.
Webcam	A webcam is a video device that inputs video for viewing on an output device.
Wide Area Network (WAN)	A WAN is a network that includes more than one physical site and often uses multiple protocols via phone lines, fiber optic cables, and even satellite links.
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA)	WPA is an improved encryption technique for protecting Wi-Fi communications, designed to replace WEP. WPA was subsequently updated to WPA2.
Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)	When using WPS to configure a network connection, users push a button on the network access point, usually a router and another button or on-screen selection to connect the devices to associate the two devices. Some WPS-enabled devices use a PIN instead of a push-button configuration.
Windows	Windows is the general-purpose operating system from Microsoft. Windows started as version 3.1 for 16-bit computers. Microsoft operating systems evolved to support servers, desktops, gaming consoles, laptops, tablets, and mobile devices.
Windows Defender	Windows Defender is an anti-spyware tool provided with Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Windows 8. At the time of this writing, Windows AntiSpyware is in beta release.
Windows Explorer	Windows Explorer opens as a window and performs as the standard interface for the management of files and folder. In Windows 10, the capability is called File Explorer.
Windows Firewall	Windows Firewall is a default security option for the Windows operating system that helps prevent hackers from intruding into a computing device.
Windows Update	A Windows Update includes the Microsoft Windows operating system patches and security updates. The Automatic Update feature enables Windows to connect and download updates automatically.
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP)	WEP is a networking security protocol that has been replaced by Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA). WEP is an IEEE standard for wireless networking based on spread-spectrum radio transmission in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands.
Wireless	Wireless network connectivity uses the electromagnetic broadcast spectrum to send and receive data and voice.
Word Processing Application	Word processing applications enable users to create, edit, and save documents. Most word processing applications include capabilities to format, edit, review, and share documents.
Workgroup	A workgroup is a small group of computers that share resources via a peer-to-peer network.